Port forwarding is an essential component in connecting applications and services to the Internet. Without port forwarding, applications and services such as web servers are only available to devices within the same direct network.
Implemented at the router.

firewall rules based on origin, destination (network/ips), ports, protocols
Firewalls perform packet inspection to determine the answers to these questions.

fw categories
Stateful:  uses the entire information from a connection; rather than inspecting an individual packet, this firewall determines the behaviour of a device **based upon the entire connection**. consumes more resources, blocks devices
stateless: uses a static set of rules to determine whether or not **individual packets** are acceptable or not. For example, a device sending a bad packet will not necessarily mean that the entire device is then blocked.

A **V**irtual **P**rivate **N**etwork (or **VPN** for short) is a technology that allows devices on separate networks to communicate securely by creating a dedicated path between each other over the Internet (known as a tunnel). Devices connected within this tunnel form their own private network.

vpn tech
ppp:  allow for authentication and provide encryption of data
pptp:  allows the data from PPP to travel and leave a network.
ipsec: encrypts data using the existing **I**nternet **P**rotocol (**IP**) framework.

it's a router's job to connect networks and pass data between them. 
Routing is the label given to the process of data travelling across networks. Routing involves creating a path between networks so that this data can be successfully delivered. Routers operate at Layer 3 of the OSI model.
decides based on: shotest, most reliable, faster medium

A switch is a dedicated networking device responsible for providing a means of connecting to multiple devices. Switches can facilitate many devices (from 3 to 63) using Ethernet cables.
Switches can operate at both layer 2 and layer 3 of the OSI model. However, these are exclusive in the sense that Layer 2 switches cannot operate at layer 3