Sensitive Data Exposure occurs when a website doesn't properly protect (or remove) sensitive clear-text information to the end-user; usually found in a site's frontend source code.
We now know that websites are built using many HTML elements (tags), all of which we can see simply by "viewing the page source". A website developer may have forgotten to remove login credentials, hidden links to private parts of the website or other sensitive data shown in HTML or JavaScript.
Whenever you're assessing a web application for security issues, one of the first things you should do is review the page source code to see if you can find any exposed login credentials or hidden links.

HTML Injection is a vulnerability that occurs when unfiltered user input is displayed on the page. If a website fails to sanitise user input (filter any "malicious" text that a user inputs into a website), and that input is used on the page, an attacker can inject HTML code into a vulnerable website.
Input sanitisation is very important in keeping a website secure, as information a user inputs into a website is often used in other frontend and backend functionality.
The general rule is never to trust user input.

LB: The load balancer uses different algorithms to help it decide which server is best to deal with the request. A couple of examples of these algorithms are **round-robin**, which sends it to each server in turn, or **weighted**, which checks how many requests a server is currently dealing with and sends it to the least busy server.

Load balancers also perform periodic checks with each server to ensure they are running correctly; this is called a **health check**. If a server doesn't respond appropriately or doesn't respond, the load balancer will stop sending traffic until it responds appropriately again.

**WAF (Web Application Firewall)** A WAF sits between your web request and the web server; its primary purpose is to protect the webserver from hacking or denial of service attacks. It analyses the web requests for common attack techniques, whether the request is from a real browser rather than a bot. It also checks if an excessive amount of web requests are being sent by utilising something called rate limiting, which will only allow a certain amount of requests from an IP per second. If a request is deemed a potential attack, it will be dropped and never sent to the webserver.