The file system used in modern versions of Windows is the **New Technology File System** or simply [NTFS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/storage/file-server/ntfs-overview).

Another feature of NTFS is **Alternate Data Streams** (**ADS**).  
Alternate Data Streams (ADS) is a file attribute specific to Windows NTFS (New Technology File System).
Every file has at least one data stream (`$DATA`), and ADS allows files to contain more than one stream of data. Natively [Window Explorer](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/what-s-changed-in-file-explorer-ef370130-1cca-9dc5-e0df-2f7416fe1cb1) doesn't display ADS to the user. There are 3rd party executables that can be used to view this data, but [Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/overview?view=powershell-7.1) gives you the ability to view ADS for files.
From a security perspective, malware writers have used ADS to hide data.
Not all its uses are malicious. For example, when you download a file from the Internet, there are identifiers written to ADS to identify that the file was downloaded from the Internet.

---
the system  environment variable for the Windows directory is `%windir%`. (usually c:\windows)

"_Environment variables store information about the operating system environment. This information includes details such as the operating system path, the number of processors used by the operating system, and the location of temporary folders_".

The System32 folder holds the important files that are critical for the operating system

---
-   An Administrator can make changes to the system: add users, delete users, modify groups, modify settings on the system, etc. 
-   A Standard User can only make changes to folders/files attributed to the user & can't perform system-level changes, such as install programs.

**Local User and Group Management**. Right-click on the Start Menu and click **Run**. Type `lusrmgr.msc`

User Account Control (UAC) helps prevent malware from damaging a PC and helps organizations deploy a better-managed desktop. With UAC, apps and tasks always run in the security context of a non-administrator account, unless an administrator specifically authorizes administrator-level access to the system. UAC can block the automatic installation of unauthorized apps and prevent inadvertent changes to system settings.

---

The **System Configuration** utility (`MSConfig`) is for advanced troubleshooting, and its main purpose is to help diagnose startup issues.

The **Services** tab lists all services configured for the system regardless of their state (running or stopped). A service is a special type of application that runs in the background. (akin daemons)

The **Computer Management** (`compmgmt`) utility has three primary sections: System Tools, Storage, and Services and Applications.

_Windows includes a tool called Microsoft System Information (Msinfo32.exe).  This tool gathers information about your computer and displays a comprehensive view of your hardware, system components, and software environment, which you can use to diagnose computer issues._

resmon
_Resource Monitor displays per-process and aggregate CPU, memory, disk, and network usage information, in addition to providing details about which processes are using individual file handles and modules. Advanced filtering allows users to isolate the data related to one or more processes (either applications or services), start, stop, pause, and resume services, and close unresponsive applications from the user interface. It also includes a process analysis feature that can help identify deadlocked processes and file locking conflicts so that the user can attempt to resolve the conflict instead of closing an application and potentially losing data_

**commands**
hostname
whoami
ipconfig /?
netstat
net

---

The **Windows Registry** (per Microsoft) is a central hierarchical database used to store information necessary to configure the system for one or more users, applications, and hardware devices.

The registry contains information that Windows continually references during operation, such as:

-   Profiles for each user
-   Applications installed on the computer and the types of documents that each can create
-   Property sheet settings for folders and application icons
-   What hardware exists on the system
-   The ports that are being used.

regedit

---
_Trusted Platform Module (TPM) technology is designed to provide hardware-based, security-related functions. A TPM chip is a secure crypto-processor that is designed to carry out cryptographic operations. The chip includes multiple physical security mechanisms to make it tamper-resistant, and malicious software is unable to tamper with the security functions of the TPM_".

Per Microsoft, "_BitLocker Drive Encryption is a data protection feature that integrates with the operating system and addresses the threats of data theft or exposure from lost, stolen, or inappropriately decommissioned computers_".
On devices with TPM installed, BitLocker offers the best protection.
Per Microsoft, "_BitLocker provides the most protection when used with a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) version 1.2 or later. The TPM is a hardware component installed in many newer computers by the computer manufacturers. It works with BitLocker to help protect user data and to ensure that a computer has not been tampered with while the system was offline_".

----
the Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) coordinates the required actions to create a consistent shadow copy (also known as a snapshot or a point-in-time copy) of the data that is to be backed up.

Attackers use built-in Windows tools and utilities in an attempt to go undetected within the victim environment.  This tactic is known as Living Off The Land.

https://lolbas-project.github.io/